---
title: Face Mosaicing
layout: default
members: Rajat Vikram Singh, Charvi Puri, Saurav Maitra
description: Image Analysis Course Project
category: project
---

Face is the most easily observable characteristic feature of a human. There has been a lot of work that has been done in the field of panoramic imaging and face mosaicing. The main challenge in this lies in the variation in face images like pose, illumination, and expression, among which pose is the hardest to deal with. In the due course of completing our project we have taken help from two research papers which have been the foundation of the project work that has been done by us. In “A Multi-Resolution Spline with Application To Image Mosaics” the authors define a multiresolution technique for combining two or more images into larger image mosaic. In “A Mosaicing Scheme for Pose-Invariant Face Recognition” two side profile images are aligned with the frontal images to provide a composite face image. Face Mosaicing is used in many applications like animation and 3-D face image generation. But its main application is in the field of biometry to preserve biometric features of the face. This paper has been the basis of our implementation of the algorithm of the course project.

Mosaicing entails the consolidation of information through the application of registration and blending procedure. Face mosaicing obviates the need to store multiple face templates representing multiple poses of a user’s face image. The problem of 2-D face recognition continues to pose challenges even after several years of research in this field. Before mosaicing, it is necessary to transform the images obtained during enrollment into a common image domain. Image spline refers to techniques that are used to join two images such that the edge between them is not visible. In our project work the side profile images are first aligned with the frontal profile images of a given face through geometric registration procedure. Then, these aligned/registered images are blended together with the help of multi-resolution splining technique to give a composite face image. We have used the CMU-PIE database for the different poses of a face image to carry out the results of our experiments.